In my opinion, using this plugin is still better than the methods introduced, we just need to pay attention to IDs. Because With the Android Kotlin Extensions Gradle plugin released in 2017 came Kotlin Synthetics. For every layout file, Kotlin Synthetics creates an autogenerated class containing your view— as simple as that. You just have to import this plugin in your Gradle file, and you are all set to directly refer to the view reference variables. It calls findViewById internally only once and then caches it. This was so convenient and such fun to use, so why is it being deprecated
Let's analyze it. Pros
	* 	No boilerplate code — Just configure it
		once in your Gradle file and you are all set to go.

	* 	Kotlin Synthetics will automatically generate a class ready for you to use.

	* 	Type safety — All views are picked from your layout file with the type known to it.
 Cons

	*	Partial null safety — It is generally null safe as all your views must be present in the
		layout file for it to generate. But what if you have multiple layout files based on
		configurations where some  views are present in some layout files and missing
		in some? Here  you have to then manually check for null.

	*	Pollutes the namespace — You can have the same view ID in different layouts,
		and you can  accidentally import a view of some other layout, which will later at
		runtime throw NullPointerException.

	*	Kotlin only — Kotlin Synthetics can only be used with Kotlin. They are not
		supported with Java. There are still projects that are written in Java and
		may not be fully migrated  to Kotlin yet, and hence Kotlin Synthetics may
		not be a consistent way  of getting the ViewIds in your project. Because of
		these issues, Kotlin


Synthetics is now being deprecated.